if your site conversion rate is less
than five percent then this video is for
you I'm gonna share seven different tips
and strategies that you can Implement
right away to see real improvements and
real uplifts in your conversions I'm
also going to show you practical ways
that you can use some tools that have
been around for a long time but most
people don't know how to extract useful
and actionable and size from them I am
gonna keep my favorite tip at the very
end so stay tuned why do I talk about
sites with conversion rate less than
five percent most websites go through
different stages as they are trying to
improve their conversion rates most
e-commerce websites that we talk to
start with a conversion rate anywhere
between one to two percent there are
certain things that you can fix on the
site and that will help you go up to
four to five percent then you will hit a
plateau and you will take more advanced
tips and techniques and strategies to be
able to break from that five percent
conversion rate to the eight percent
conversion rate which is another Plateau
that you will hit
hello everyone this is Khalid with
invest this channel is about helping you
improve your site's conversion rates we
do so by sharing the best tips
techniques and strategies on the topic
if you are new to the channel make sure
that you subscribe and like let's Jump
Right In number one identifying poor
messaging on landing pages so what are
your landing pages landing pages are the
first pages that a visitor sees when
they land on your website so if I'm
coming from a different website or if
I'm coming from email if I'm coming from
a social website Instagram or Facebook
that is the landing page how do you know
if you have a problem on your landing
pages and how do you know if you have a
problem with messaging or poor messaging
on your landing pages well there is a
metric in analytics that's going to help
you identify that and that metric is
boundary what is Bounce rate bounce rate
is the percentage of visitors who come
from another website they land on your
landing page they land on your website
and they decide that they want to leave
right away they don't want to continue
to click to another page on the website
they don't want to look at your products
they don't want to look at your category
Pages they say you know what this
website is not for me thank you goodbye
and good luck a high bounce rate on a
landing page will tell you that visitors
are struggling with the particular
landing page so what you need to do is
first of course you need to find out the
bounce rate for the different landing
pages that you have on your website in
order for you to do so we will have to
jump into Google analytics so whether
you are using Google analytics Universal
which most website are still using or if
you have upgraded to Google analytics 4
then there's a report that will show you
your top planning pages so what you need
to do is to figure out if you have a
problem with a high bounce rate or not
the natural question is how do I know if
my bounce rate is high or is it too low
this will depend on the type of page
that you have if you want to learn more
more about bounce rate and how to look
it up then I've created a video for that
and you can find that video by clicking
on this link and I will also leave a
link to that video in the description
for most e-commerce website a bounce
rate of 40 or higher is considered too
high but again this will depend on the
type of page that you have now how come
that's a different topic if you want to
know more about bounce race and how do I
consider one bounce rate too high versus
the other leave a comment below and I
will record a separate video about this
so now we've looked at our top landing
pages report and we've noticed that we
have a whole bunch of landing pages with
a high bounce rate what does that tell
us when a visitor lands on your page
they are not sure if they are in the
right place or not that's where your
messaging on the landing page matters a
lot your messaging needs to tell
visitors yes you are in the right places
it needs to pique the interest of your
visitors to say hey there's something
interesting over here and it needs to
tell them that well you can actually
trust us and we are a trustworthy
website if you notice that you have
landing pages with a bounce rate of 60
70 or in some instances I've seen
landing pages with bounce rate above 80
or 90 then there is something absolutely
that is not working for visitors when
they land on that landing page now
there's always an exception and that's
perhaps the problem with marketing and
this is the problem with analytics if
you notice that your blog Pages have a
high bounce rate then don't worry about
those pages black Pages especially on
e-commerce websites are notorious for
having a high bounce rate and it sort of
makes sense somebody clicked on an
article they land on your page that read
the article and they said you know what
I'm satisfied I'm done goodbye and good
luck that is reason most blog pages on
most websites whether it's e-commerce or
just typical content websites will have
a high Advanced rate but if you notice
that your category Pages your home page
or product page have a high bounce rate
then there is a problem you need to
really look at those top landing pages
and start evaluating the headlines that
you are using on those pages when you
look at headlines for landing pages
you'll notice that there are typically
three different problems that I see one
is they are two functional they remove
all emotions and they just merely say
here's what we do the second problem is
they are the Other Extreme they are too
emotional and too vague to the point
that you have no clue what the site does
and visitors are left wondering is like
well am I even in the right place what
do those guys sell and the third type of
problem that I see with messaging and
headline is that sometimes marketers try
to avoid the first problem of having too
functional of a headline and they try
and avoid having too emotional of a
headline and they end up creating what I
call a markety headline it's a headline
that has been written by marketers and
users are very smart they will sniff out
at that have been written by marketers
so they are turned off and they say you
know what goodbye and good luck so how
do I fix the messaging on my landing
pages let's start with the headlines
your headlines must have a combination
of the functional aspects of what you
are trying to sell with the emotional
benefits of why people would want to buy
your product or service well how do I
find that emotional side the best way to
do that is through customer interviews
one-on-one customer interviews lengthy
customer interviews there's a whole art
to conducting customer interviews
selecting the right customer conducting
the customer interviews and then pulling
insights from those customer interviews
if that is something that you are
interested in leave a comment below and
I will work on recording a video on the
topic so we've talked about the
headlines on the landing pages but there
is something else that you want to pay
close attention to look at the overall
design of the landing page remember you
communicate with your visitors in two
ways through the words that are written
number two through the design of the
page the page is telling visitors
through its design a lot of information
are the copy and the design consistent
are they telling visitors the same
message are we being congruent is our
messaging consistent throughout the page
if you look at this with a very careful
eye you might be able to understand why
visitors are struggling on your landing
pages and why they choose to leave so
identify the top landing pages identify
problem areas on those pages create new
headlines fix the designs and start
deploying that and we'll talk about how
you do that a little later in this video
let's go to number two identifying
problem areas on bottom of the funnel
Pages your bottom of the funnel pages
are Pages where visitors are much closer
to making the purchase decision for an
e-commerce website those pages are
typically your cart page and your
checkout process those two pages tell
you that the visitor had already looked
through your category pages selected the
right product clicked and read all the
product details looked at the different
product information and clicked on the
add to cart the goal from our bottom of
the funnel pages is to tell the visitor
thank you here is how you can actually
place the order imagine somebody walking
to a supermarket going to a Best Buy or
a Walmart they browse through the aisles
they pick the right product they are
ready to buy and now we just need them
to walk up to the cashier or to the
register and just go ahead and buy the
product that really is the goal of the
cart or the checkouts pages on our
website now how do I know if I have a
problem in my card and in my checkout
you need to go back to your analytics
and you need to look at your card
abandonment rate and to get your
checkout abandonment rate what is the
card abandonment rate it's the number of
people who have added items to the cart
but they've decided to leave the card
and abandon the website saying you know
what goodbye and good luck worse than
that is the checkout abandonment rate
because those visitors not only did they
look at the cart page but they actually
started the checkout process so they are
even more committed I've looked through
the website I looked through the
category pages I looked at your product
page I clicked on the add to cart I
looked at the cart page I'm good let's
start the checkout and let's just go
ahead and place the order but then those
people after they start to check out
they decide to leave high card
abandonment rates and high checkout
abandonment rate tell you that there is
a problem in either the cart or the
checkout or sometimes they tell you that
their problem exists prior to the cart
or the checkout what is a high card
abandonment rate well this varies from
one website to the next but if I see a
card abandonment rate above 65 then
typically that tells me that there is a
problem with the cart page if I see a
checkout abandonment rate above 45 then
that tells me there is a problem in the
checkout process so what do you need to
do first is log into your analytics and
hopefully you have those funnels
configured and you can look at your cart
abandonment rate and you can look at
your checkout abandonment rate and by
the way if you are an e-commerce website
you must it's not even an option you
must have enhanced e-commerce enabled
and implemented on your website because
that will give you tremendous amount of
data on the user's behavior on your
website so let's say we noticed that our
card Amendment trade is anywhere between
75 to 80 percent while the numbers are
telling us that there is a problem that
doesn't mean we know why this problem
exists so that's when we need to Bunker
down and do a little bit further
analysis to really understand why people
are struggling on the cart page and
decided to walk away from the website
let me give you an example from one
website that we are working with we've
noticed after we did our analysis that's
their card abandonment rate was closer
to 85 percent this website competes with
Peloton so they sell very expensive
exercise equipment that you can use at
home the average order value for them is
around twenty five hundred dollars when
we looked at the high card abandonment
rate we wonder it could be that we have
a problem on the cart page or it could
be that people are struggling because
it's a high order value 2500 or it could
be different problem altogether because
you and I most people have bought
exercise equipment in the past we
probably have some exercise equipments
in our attic on our basement and we have
not used it in so many years any of
those reasons or a combination of these
reasons could be the cost for people to
abandon the cart so what you need to do
is you need to start looking and
evaluating and trying to come up with a
hypothesis of why people are struggling
the easy fix is by looking at your cart
page and making sure that there are no
technical issues on the card page you
should be able to do that if you have a
quality control team or you can hire
somebody just to evaluate if they are
usability or technical issues on the
cart page a bonus tip over here one of
the biggest offenders that we see on the
card and the checkout process is the
promo codes where people have added an
item to the card they are ready to place
an order and then they see that promo
code box or coupon and they think to
themselves you know what maybe I can get
a 10 discount and instead of starting
the checkout process they say to
themselves well let me just go ahead and
search online maybe I'll find a discount
code somewhere what they end up doing is
leaving your website instead of placing
an order you end up with an abandoned
cart or an abandoned checkout process
for the other types of reasons that you
might have that cause people to abandon
one of the best ways to figure this out
is by asking customers who have actually
bought from you to understand what were
the biggest struggles what actually
could have stopped them from actually
placing an order on your website number
three identifying leaky pages on your
website you need to again jump in into
your analytics and you need to look at
your top content report and in this case
we're not going to look at the bounce
rate metric that we've talked about in
number one instead we are going to look
at a different metric and that metric is
exit rates exit rate is the percentage
of visitors who either Came From a
Different Page on the website or they
came from an external Source from a
different website they are at this page
and now they look around and they say to
themselves you know what no I'm not
going to continue imagine this scenario
I'm on Facebook I see an ad I click an
ad I'm landing on your website so now
I'm landing on the landing page if I
leave the website right away then that
is considered a bounce but in this case
I like the landing page I like the
messaging I like the product it actually
solves a problem that I have been
dealing with for a while so I'm gonna
actually continue navigating so I'm
going to look at a few information about
your website I'm gonna go to the product
page so I've navigated through multiple
pages on the website and now the product
page I say you know what I want to leave
maybe I got a phone call and I got busy
and I forgot about your site and your
product pages all together that is when
you have an exit a boundary tells you
that there is a problem on messaging
that your website did not convince
people to stay on the website exit rate
on the other hand tells you that people
are struggling not with trusting the
website not with trusting the messaging
because they've already made the
commitment they've already navigated
through multiple pages on the website
but now they got your product pages and
they say to themselves oh man no I want
to leave the website a high exit rate
will tell you that there is a problem
usually with the page design with the
page layout sometimes with the
information architecture of the website
different pages on your website will
have different exit rates you want to
look at the exit rate for your category
pages and you want to look at the exit
rate for your products pages and again
you can look at the exit trade for your
cart and the checkout process in x
concentrate of 20 or higher on category
pages is considered really high an extra
trade of 30 or higher on product pages
is considered really high now there's
lots of theory behind this so if you
want to know more about exit rates leave
a comment below and I will record a
video on the topic so now we've looked
at our different pages and we've
identified Pages where the exit trade is
too high your job now is to look at
those pages very carefully and evaluate
whether you are presenting information
in a way that answers all the questions
that people have again this centers
around the information that we're
presenting on the page is the
information very clear is it laid out in
a way that answers all the questions
that people have when you identify those
pages where there is a problem with the
presentation of the information go ahead
and make those fixes on your website so
we are not done yet about halfway
through but you might notice that this
video is taking a little bit longer than
I affected so in order for you to view
the rest of the tips please make sure to
click to view part two of this video and
as I promised you I've kept my best tip
the one that is gonna really help you
improve your site conversion rate until
the end if you have not subscribed to
the Channel please make sure that you do
so like and comment on this video Let's
jump in to part two